# Project: Data Warehouse
 
A music streaming startup, Sparkify, has grown their user base and song database and want to move their processes and data onto the cloud. 
The analytics team are interested in finding insights in what songs their users are listening to.
Their data resides in S3, in a directory of JSON logs on user activity on the app, as well as a directory with JSON metadata on the songs in their app.
 
## Introduction

To assist the analytics team, an ETL pipline will need to be built that extracts their data from S3, stages them in Redshift, and transforms data into a set of dimensional tables for the analytics team to easily query.  

## Project Files

The project workspace includes five files:

1. create_tables.py - drops and creates the tables. You run this file to reset the tables before each 
   time the ETL scripts are run. 
3. dwh.cfg  - config file that stores database details and filepaths for data on S3.
4. etl.py  - reads and loads files from S3 into staging tables on Redshift and then process that data into your analytics tables on Redshift. 
5. sql_queries.py - contains all the sql queries.
6. README.md - This file provides discussion on the project.

## Data Sets

There are 2 datasets that need to be imported into the database to be used for anaylsis:

1. Song Dataset
   The first dataset is a subset of real data from the Million Song Dataset. 
   Each file is in JSON format and contains metadata about a song and the artist of that song. 
2. Log Dataset
   The second dataset consists of log files in JSON format generated by the event simulator based on the 
   songs in the dataset above. These simulate activity logs from a music streaming app based on specified 
   configurations.

## Usage

These are the instructions to load and process the data into the Redshift database:

1. Create AWS Redshift cluster.
	 Launch a redshift cluster and create an IAM role that has read access to S3.

2. Update dwh.cfg file with Redshift database details and IAM role info(ARN). 

3. Run the create_tables.py file in a Python Terminal to create your tables. This will drop 
   any existing tables and create new tables in the Redshift database.

```bash
python3 create_tables.py
```

4. Run etl.py in a Python Terminal to load data from S3 into staging tables on Redshift and then process that data into analytics tables on Redshift. 

```bash
python3 etl.py
```

 
